Globalisation has created uniformity in customer expectations world over. With opening up of Indian economy, our manufacturing sector has to compete globally even for the domestic market. This would require strong products with leading technology / quality and compelling cost advantage. Suitably trained manpower with skill sets appropriate for design, development and prototyping using modern IT tools is critical to achieve this goal. This Institute is envisioned as an academic institution of excellence that would facilitate and promote the competitive advantage of Indian products in global markets. This Institute will serve as an inter-disciplinary institution for education and research in the area of Product Lifecycle Management (PLM) encompassing design and manufacturing using state of the art concepts, tools, processes and practices of the industry world over.

Indian Institute of Information Technology Design and Manufacturing Kancheepuram (IIITDM Kancheepuram) is a Centre of Excellence for technical education and research established in 2007 by the Ministry of Education, Government of India to pursue design and manufacturing oriented engineering education and research and to promote the competitive advantage of Indian products in global markets.

It is one of the two IIITDMs, the other one being located in Jabalpur. The institute, which was operating from its temporary campus within the Indian Institute of Technology Madras, which was also its mentor institute, has moved to its permanent campus at Kelambakkam-Vandalur road near Chennai in 2011. The institute offers academic and research programs that integrate engineering design, manufacturing and management with information technology. The institute offers undergraduate and postgraduate programs which focus on IT, design and manufacturing in engineering sectors.

The institute is located on a 51 acre campus on the outskirts of Chennai, off the Vandalur-Kelambakkam road. It is a fully residential campus with all students residing within the campus. The campus houses the academic block, the administrative block, lecture hall complex and laboratory block.